A little bit about tracebacks.
We talked about how to read the traceback
from a Python program earlier in the day,
that we wanna start at the bottom and
go up to the top.
If we have any uncaught exceptions in our
program, it is going to exit the program.
So let's make a new file
called exceptions.py.
And run this, and we will see that
end of the program never printed out.
Because this through an exception, I'm
trying to ask Python to convert the letter
A into an integer and it's like,
I don't know what you're talking about.
So you need to be mindful that your
programs don't have any uncaught
exceptions or
they will behave in unpredictable ways.
You want to catch your exceptions
with syntax called try and accept.
And let's look at what that looks like.
Try is a keyword with a colon and
you need to indent the code
that you are trying one level.
And then, The accept keyword.
And following the accept keyword,
this will work,
Without any additional arguments.
I can say an exception happened.
So if I run this, it will print
out an exception happened and
then end of the program.
Generally, we want to catch exceptions
that are specific as possible.
And for the most part,
Python gives us a helpful hint.
What was the exception here?
Well, it was a value error.
I tried to pass in
a string into the integer.
So I can just copy this class and
paste it after the accept.
And that will catch the very specific
exception that was thrown in this case.
If I had another exception in
here like a divide by zero.
No, that's also a value error.
It's another good exception.
Let's say I have a dictionary and
I tried to get a key
that is not in that
dictionary that will error.
Is that also value error?
Yeah, right,
I would need to change the order of these.
So because this threw an exception first,
it's getting caught here.
I wanna show you something else.
This will throw a key error.
And so now if I run this,
I will see my key error.
That's because this is the code
that threw the exception.
If I change this back to just
accept with no specific exception,
it's going to catch both of them.
Generally, this is a bad thing.
You want to be as specific about catching
your exceptions as possible so that when
you need to go back and figure out and
debug and troubleshoot what went wrong.
You have a pretty clear idea about
which code caught which exception.
Now, you can also have different
code run for different exceptions.
So I can say accept value error,
say, a value exception happened.
And then I can say accept key error,
which I got the class from right here and
print out, A key was not found.
And now because this was first,
I got my key error first.
If I switch the order of these,
I will get my value error first.
But now I have both scenarios covered.
And I know exactly which
exception was thrown and where.
I'm not going to deep
dive into exceptions, but
I think they're a pretty important
fundamental concept of Python.
So I recommend that you go back through
and take a look at this detailed chapter.
Most importantly, you never want to catch
exceptions that aren't specific.
If you try to catch from the exception
that all exceptions inherit from,
you could end up with a program that
doesn't let you exit it with Ctrl+C or
other weird and subtle bugs.
So make sure that you have a pretty good
understanding of how exceptions work.
There's also a finally clause that you
can include that is an optional block,
that will run after the try regardless
of if an exception was thrown or not.
So if you need to do some cleanup,
that's the right place for it.
So let's chat about
the exception hierarchy.
Python has a lot of useful built-in
exceptions that you are probably going to
encounter.
You can find a detailed list of those
built-in exceptions in the Python
documentation.
An important thing to
know about exceptions is,
like everything else in Python,
are just objects.
So they follow an inheritance hierarchy,
and
more specific classes inherit
from more general ones.
For example, the zero division error
is a subclass of arithmetic error,
which is a subclass of exception,
which is a subclass of base exception.
That's why the best practice is to
catch more specific exceptions first.
And don't catch exception and
especially don't catch base exception.
If you catch base exception, you're gonna
swallow every type of exception, including
the one that is thrown when you press
Ctrl+C while a Python program is running.
And that is the keyboard
interrupt exception.
If you catch base exception,
it will cause your Python program not to
respond to Ctrl+C,
which is not something that anybody wants.
So don't do it.
Because exceptions are regular classes,
we can also inherit from them
from our own custom exceptions.
Which makes it very easy to make
our own custom specific exceptions.
This makes our programs
a lot more readable.
And I'm not going to cover
custom exceptions here, but
there are custom exceptions that
you can work through in practice.